We're now going to cover the weighted rounds in policy so the weighted routing policy is similar to
simple except that you can apply a weight to each record.
So what you do is you create a record so let's call it weighted DCC labs dot com and you create multiple
records within rule 53.
Each with a corresponding value an IP address of the server but you then specify the weight and what
this does is it means that this is the percentage of traffic that's going to be sent to that target.
So in other words Route 50 free is going to respond.
In this case they total 100.
They don't have to but in this case we've got 60 percent 20 percent and 20 percent.
So that means that 60 percent of the time Route 50 free is going to provide this value wonder wonder
wonder one and then 20 percent of the time it's going to provide one of the other values.
Now you can configure health checks but they are optional.
So the way this works then you've got your DNS query to whatever that might be use a machine an application
sending a request for weighted DCT and absolute com.
The response comes back and 60 percent of that time that response is going to send you to the instance
in this region here.
Now of course these could be in the same region or they could be in multiple regions.
That's not really a problem.
You can set that up however you want and then 20 percent of the time it's going to send to each of these
two resources so let's go back to the console now and we're going to set this configuration up.
So I mean my hosted design and I'm going to create a record set I'm going to call this weighted and
the first one I'm going to do is an alias so I'm going to select my load balancer as the target and
then I'm going to select weighted and I need to give this a weight of 60 and I need to give it an I.D.
now evaluate target health comes up when it's an alias type we can choose to enable that or not.
So it says that it checks the health of the records set that the 80s record points to
now associate with health check is optional for of record types but because this is an alias record
it is actually mandatory.
So we need to actually associate this with a health check and we actually have Sydney based
and it's just given us a warning to say that the health checks specifies the endpoint by domain name
and just confirm that the resource records isn't the same as the right name in the associated health
check which we know is okay.
So let's just create this record and what we want to do now is we're just going to go back to where
I've recorded these addresses and I'm now going to say that 20 percent of my traffic goes to Norfolk
Virginia so we come back in and we create a new record set we call it weighted again.
So it's the same name.
It's in a record.
I'm going to specify the.
I didn't copy that out pieces just go back and make sure I copy it properly.
There we go.
So I'm going to remove that piece the IP pin and we're going to have waited and this time we're going
to give it 20 percent and I'm just going to call this and the waited and this time will leave the health
check off and you see that works fine and so we've got another one now.
It's gonna be weighted.
It's going to get the IP address and this third one.
It's gonna be our instance in Singapore.
So we price the IP address and change the way to it and put in 20 percent.
Again
the created those free records and so now you can see that they're all called weighted DCT labs dot
com they're all playing records one points to a load balancer and it has a health check specified.
The others just point to IP addresses.
So and we can see here the wait.
So this shows us the way is 60 percent should go to the load balancer and then 20 percent and 20 percent.
So let's open up a new tab in our browser window and let's go to weighted DCT
maps dot com and so of course we get our responses as expected.
This is easy to instance in AP SD to be.
And let's refresh that so we can say that we're cycling free.
That doesn't mean that rule 50 frees doing this.
What around 50 free is done is it's given us the IP for the load balancer in AP Southeast 2 and then
the load balancer is just going to keep cycling as free.
So so really that just shows that we've gone to the Sydney region first and if we open up a command
line just going to clear the screen let's do dig weighted DCT labs dot com.
And so what we see now is we have two records it looks like they're about to expire and the two records
are both going to correspond to the low balance so they don't actually correspond to the back end instances.
They're going to respond to the actual load balancer itself.
And let's just run that command again and we've got a new response.
But of course it's the same IP because 60 percent of the time this is what we're going to get.
And if we just keep rerunning this and you might want to do that in your lab and you you will see after
a while that you do get a different response so that's really it for weighted routing policies.
Just remember you can have health checks that optional unless you've got a load balancer in which case
you do actually need to specify a health check.
And really it's all about having a weighted response.
So you might want to use this in circumstances such as you're releasing a new version of your application
and you don't want to cut all your traffic across to it.
So you might pay say have 80 or 90 percent your traffic going to your main web site and then you have
10 or 20 percent going to another site with the latest version and then you can see how that goes before
you cut across the changes to your main website.